# Are-interest-rates-on-home-loans-likely-to-reduce?
<p align="justify">It had been declared on March 27th of 2020 that the Reserve Bank of India has reduced the repo rate by 75 bps (basic points) so as to prevent the economy from the major impacts of the Coronavirus lockdown. Furthermore, announcements have been made based on the speculation among existing home loan borrowers and future home loan borrowers on whether or not mortgage rates are going down.<br>
<br><p align="justify">The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has reduced the repo rate by 75 bps at the end of March, as a result of which the repo rate had been reduced to 4.40% from the previous 5.15%. When the repo rates were compared with that of 2019 when it was 6.25%. But with time the rates have been slashed significantly this year.<br>
<br><p align="justify">Repo rate is a term for the interest rate at which RBI lends money to commercial banks. When RBI reduces the repo rate it means that banks are able to borrow money from RBI at a lower rate of interest. Currently, the repo rate charged is 4,40% which means that RBI is charging an interest rate of 4.40% from the commercial banks that are willing to avail loans. When RBI reduces its repo rate it means the general borrowers are also going to avail the benefits. This happens as the interest rates of various loans are lowered, including big-time loans like a Punjab National Bank home loan. As a result, the new borrowers and the existing floating-rate loan borrowers can see a reduction in the rate of interest in home loans. This helps the customer in ways where he has to pay an overall less sum of monthly EMI installation.<br>
<br><p align="justify">This means that one can expect the lending rates of home loans and other loans like car loans, personal loans, small business loans to go down. However, some reputed banks and institutions pass on this benefit to their customers whereas some institutions do not. In a study conducted by the IMF (International Monetary Fund), it was found that the commercial banks are quite slow in transferring the benefits that the RBI is providing by reducing the repo rate. Although banks generally decrease the rate of interest earned by fixed deposits and recurring deposits, savings bank accounts take time to reflect the changes while lending interest rates. Similarly, when there is an increase in the rate of interest banks quickly raise the lending rates whereas deposit rates don't change so fast. Further, it is necessary to note that there is a reduction in the interest rates only where floating rate home loans and new home loans are concerned. If you are availing of a fixed rate home loan then you will not be able to utilize these benefits.<br>
<br><p align="justify">With RBI reducing the repo rates for easing the troubles that people are facing in this financial crunch caused by the CoronaVirus pandemic and lockdown. It is considered that the interest rate of home loans are also supposed to come down with this declaration of RBI. Further, it is for us to wait and watch which banks are going to pass the benefits to their clients and how soon.<br>
<br><p align="justify">Thus if you are looking to benefit from the latest reduction of repo rates, declared according to RBI statements, then you have to make sure to survey the market and look around for shopping various home loan schemes before you come to a decision. Also if you are stuck with a high rate of interest on your home loan then it is probably time to switch to another lender offering you better advantages. Home loan refinancing is the term for such scenarios where you feel the need of settling accounts with the existing lender and start a new account with a different lender who is availing you better interest rates. Further before taking any steps you can compare your interest rates at dialabank and get to avail of the best offers in the market.

<h3>Author Bio</h3>
<p align="justify">Gaurav S. Khurana is the Founder and CEO of Dialabank and has had a great career in the Banking and Financial Services Sector. He has an experience of 18 years in the sector and has worked at Senior Roles including National Sales Head at ING Investment Management India and as the Vice President Citibank. A post-graduate from IMT, Ghaziabad. Gaurav started his career as a Named Account Manager in Xerox.<br>
<p align="justify">Being a part of this field for a long time now, he has written many informative articles and blogs benefiting and assisting many in making decisions regarding the policies provided by various banks and non-banking financial companies such as the <a href="https://www.dialabank.com/home-loan/punjab-national-bank-home-loan/">Punjab National bank Home loan policy.
